---
layout: post
title: "Zhuo's note 01"
subtitle: "Hello World"
date: 2022-11-23 12:49:31 -0400
background: '/img/posts/Genshin_01/Genshin_initial.png'
usemathjax: true
---
## 1 Products of Sets

<span style="color:blue">$\boldsymbol{\sf{Proposition}}$</span>	Let $\left\{X_\alpha\right\}$ be a family of sets indexed by $A$. Then there exists a set $\prod_{\alpha\in A} X_\alpha$ together with a family of maps $\left\{p_\beta:\prod_{\alpha\in A} X_\alpha\to X_\beta\right\}$ such that for any set $Z$ and any family of maps $\left\{f_\alpha:Z\to X_\alpha\right\}_{\alpha\in A}$, there exists a unique $F:Z\to\prod_{\alpha\in A} X_\alpha$ so that $p_\alpha\circ F=f_\alpha$ for all $\alpha\in A$.

*Proof*. Define the set to be:
$$
\underset{\alpha\in A}{\small\prod} X_\alpha:=\left\{g:A\to\left.\underset{\alpha\in A}{\bigcup}X_\alpha~\right|~g(\alpha)\in X_\alpha,~\forall \alpha  \right\}
$$
and the family of (projection) maps to be:
$$
p_\beta:\underset{\alpha\in A}{\small\prod} X_\alpha\to X_\beta,\qquad p_\beta(g)=g(\beta).
$$
Then for any set $Z$ and any family of maps $\left\{f_\alpha:Z\to X_\alpha\right\}_{\alpha\in A}$, define
$$
\begin{align}
F:Z&\longrightarrow{\small\prod} X_\alpha
\\[1ex]
z&\longmapsto F_z
\end{align}\qquad F_z(\alpha):=f_\alpha(z).
$$
Then we have that
$$
p_\alpha\circ F(z)=F_z(\alpha)=f_\alpha(z)
$$
Therefore, $p_\alpha\circ F=f_\alpha$ for all $\alpha\in A$. To show that $F$ is unique, note that
$$
F_z(\alpha)=p_\alpha(F(z))=f_\alpha(z)
$$
is forced by the requirement that $p_\alpha\circ F=f_\alpha$. Hence, $F_z$ is forced.	$\blacksquare$



## 2 Products of Spaces

<span style="color:blue">$\boldsymbol{\sf Theorem}$</span>	Let $\left\{X_\alpha\right\}$ be a family of topological spaces indexed by $A$. Then there exists a toplogical space $\prod_{\alpha\in A} X_\alpha$ together with a family of continuous maps $\left\{p_\beta:\prod_{\alpha\in A} X_\alpha\to X_\beta\right\}$ such that for any space $Z$ and any family of continuous maps $\left\{f_\alpha:Z\to X_\alpha\right\}_{\alpha\in A}$, there exists a unique continuous map $F:Z\to\prod_{\alpha\in A} X_\alpha$ so that $p_\alpha\circ F=f_\alpha$ for all $\alpha\in A$.

> Remark. Note how this definition is in parallel with the universal property of product sets.

*Proof*. Let the set $\prod_{\alpha\in A} X_\alpha$ and the family of maps $\left\{p_\beta:\prod_{\alpha\in A} X_\alpha\to X_\beta\right\}$ be defined as in the previous proposition. Define a subbasis $\mathcal{S}$ to be
$$
\mathcal{S}:=\left\{\left.p_\beta^{-1}\left(U\right)~\right|~\beta\in A,~U\text{ open in }X_\beta\right\}.
$$
Then all the maps $p_\beta$ are automatically continuous. Note that $(x_\alpha)\in p_\beta^{-1}\left(U\right)$ if and only if $x_\beta\in U$. It is not hard to see that $\mathcal{S}$ covers $\prod_{\alpha\in A} X_\alpha$, so let $\mathcal{T}$ be the topology induced by $\mathcal{S}$.

By the universal property of ***product sets***, for any space $Z$ and any family of continuous maps $\left\{f_\alpha:Z\to X_\alpha\right\}_{\alpha\in A}$, there exists a unique map $F:Z\to\prod_{\alpha\in A} X_\alpha$ so that $p_\alpha\circ F=f_\alpha$ for all $\alpha\in A$. Now $F$ is continuous because
$$
F^{-1}\left(p_\beta^{-1}(U)\right)=f_\beta^{-1}(U)
$$
is open in $Z$ by the continuity of $f_\beta$. Hence $F$ exists and is unique.



<span style="color:blue">$\boldsymbol{\sf Theorem}$</span>	The product topology is unique up to homeomorphism. I.e., if $W$ is any other topological space with its family of continuous maps so that the universal property holds, then $W$ is homeomorphic to the topological space we just defined.



## 3 Properties of Product Topology

<span style="color:blue">$\boldsymbol{\sf{Proposition}}$</span>	The projection maps $\pi_\beta:\prod X_\alpha\to X_\beta$ is open.

*Proof*. Any open set in the product topology is a union of finite intersections of sets in $\mathcal{S}$. Now 
$$
\pi_\beta\left(\pi_\alpha^{-1}(U)\right)=\begin{cases}
U&\text{if }\alpha=\beta
\\
X_\beta&\text{if }\alpha\ne\beta
\end{cases}
$$
because $\pi$ is surjective. Similarly,
$$
\pi_\beta\left(\pi_{\alpha_1}^{-1}(U_1)\cap\cdots\cap\pi_{\alpha_n}^{-1}(U_n)\right)=\begin{cases}
U_i&\text{if }\alpha_i=\beta
\\
X_\beta&\text{if }\alpha_i\ne\beta~~\forall~i
\end{cases}
$$
Therefore, $\pi$ sends basis elements to open sets, so $\pi$ is open.	$\blacksquare$



<span style="color:#eb861c">$\boldsymbol{\sf Remark}$</span>	The projection maps are not closed. For example, $p:\R^2\to\R$ maps $xy=1$ to $\R-\{0\}$.

